---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Knowing Javascript for a week.
date: 2017-09-01
labels:
  - growth
  - javascript
  - exercising the mind
---

Throughout my computer science courses, I have felt to be the slowest learner in my class. This may be because I don't code 
on my free time. I also have struggled with coding and looked for help whether it be talking it out with people or 
online sources to solve my problems. 

Coming into this course, I heard about the intensity of ICS 314, and it made me nervous. I heard there was homework everyday
and that you were given a pass or fail grade for timed quizzes. Originally, I didn't need to take this course and I felt 
as if I dodged a bullet. However, after talking with my friends that have taken the course and noticing my downward feelings 
toward coding, I have decided to use this opportunity to strengthen myself, so I can actually feel worthy to say I am studying
computer science. 

This past week I learned the basics of Javascript through freecodecamp.org. The basics course was not too bad, even though 
it said it would take 10 hours, I finished it in less amount of time. I was also surprised on how easy I picked up Javascript.
This is probably because it was only the  basics, like if-else statements, loops, printing output, arrays. These subjects were 
familiar because of previous classes, which is probably why it was easier to understand than some other languages like C or Assembly. 

But even with that, I still was nervous about the first WOD because all the practice wods I failed to do it in the given amount of time.
So, on the first real WOD day, I was mega nervous. Luckily, I was able to finish before the timme was up, even when I was working slow. 
But I still feel like I had some mistakes, so I probably need to work on being faster.

So overall, I think Javascript is pretty fun compared to some other languages, and even though I'm slow I look forward to 
become a better programmer in terms of speed and thinking power. 
